In this video we'll take a look at some of the new V Center features that are available with these first
five and the first big feature that I want to take some time to examine is called the center server
high availability.
This is a really important new feature because what it does is it gives you the ability to protect the
center server with just native built in tools.
Right.
So this takes away a lot of the requirements that we've had in the past for things like V Center heartbeat
and stuff like that.
Right.
This is a really great system that we can use to just use integrated availability for the center server.
So let's start by breaking down our diagram here.
So on the far left we have our active V Center server.
This is the center server that's running right now.
And let's assume that it's got an embedded platform services controller and we're using the V Center
share of our appliance.
Right.
So we've got our activity center instance it's got the embedded postscripts sequel database.
It's got the IP address of the V-sign or instance present on it.
And then we've also got a passive v. center and a witness appliance and the role of the witness is to
provide quorum.
So what I mean by that is if there is some sort of scenario where we have a failure.
And so a failure occurs.
Well we could have all kinds of different failures.
There could be all sorts of different failures that could occur and it might not be apparent as to which
recentre is actually working.
For example let's say that if something were to break the network connection between the active and
passive the center well that point the witness will basically provide quorum right I'll say I can reach
this via sender but I can't reach this other Center.
It's almost like a voting system.
So the majority rules in this case right.
So if the witness and the passivist owner can talk to each other at that point the passivist is going
to take over and that's the role of the witness in this case is to essentially provide a tiebreaker
between the active and passive the center
so it's going to happen in this scenario is the active the center and the passivist center.
They are going to synchronously replicate their database.
And what that means is they're going to replicate in real time.
Right.
They're going to be constantly kept exactly the same.
So any time you hear the term synchronous replication that's what that means it's just simply real time
a replication of data.
We need to keep these two centers exactly the same.
So we're going to replicate the database from the act of the center to the paths of the center.
All right so now let's assume some sort of failure has occurred.
Right.
Maybe the ESX I host that the activity center was running on has failed or maybe the data store that
that active V Center had its files stored on has failed.
That's one of the beautiful things about this system is it does not assume that we have shared storage.
It assumes that the active data center could potentially be housed on local storage.
All right so if that's the case if the activity center was on the local disks of 7 ESX I host and those
disks failed or the scuzzy controller failed or something like that we it would go out but that's okay
because we've been constantly replicating this database from our primary center to our passively center.
So it has an up to date copy of all of the data that it needs.
And at this point the passive Center and the witness have a quorum.
They know that the primary Senator the one that was active was now down.
So there's a fail over that that occurs.
And at that point the passive sender becomes the active the center it takes over the IP address of the
active center and it's got a current copy of the database on both of these instances.
So it has a current copy of all of the data.
Right it also has a set of files that need to be replicated.
So every virtual machine has a set of files like VM X Files and things like that.
Those files also need to get replicated and those happen once every five minutes.
OK so now the passivist Center has taken over.
It's now running the databases now got the current IP address the fail over time here is five minutes.
The recovery time objective.
So any time you hear that term r t o r t o means recovery time objective and that's simply the amount
of acceptable downtime.
So visitors are going to be down for about five minutes for this fail fail over to occur.
The RPO or recovery point objective is zero recovery point objective specifies how much data can we
lose how much data loss is acceptable.
How many minutes of data can we tolerate losing.
And in this case it's zero because the database is being replicated synchronously.
So there is no data loss.
So that's the biggest new feature of the center in these first 6.5.
It's fairly straightforward to configure this.
You can go through what's called the Basic workflow and that makes it very easy to set up the basic
workflow is just like it sounds it's extremely basic.
It's basically a point and click tool.
It's automatically going to create those passive nodes in the witness nodes it's automatically going
to create distress anti affinity rules.
So you don't have to worry about any of that but if you want to do something more specific to your particular
needs like spread nodes across multiple host clusters spread nodes across multiple physical locations
then you need to use the advanced deployment workflow.
And that's a little bit more complicated.
It's also more complicated if you're using an external platform services controller.
Right because we need to provide high availability for the platform services controller as well.
So we'll provide ha for the platform services controller using a load balancer maybe from you know F5.
They have a big IP as their big load balancer or if you have the more NSX there's a load balancer included
with that that you can use as well.
But regardless if you decide to do an external platform services controller and usually you're only
going to do that if you have multiple The center server.
But if you decide to go that route setting up the center server ha becomes a little bit more complicated
because we need to utilize a load balancer
Another new feature in for six top five is the native backup and restore of the center.
Great new feature.
It allows us to back up the center and the platform services controller from the center appliance management
interface or VME.
So the center appliance management interface is simply that little web address on port 54 80 that you
connect to that allows you to manage the center server appliance.
Right.
Or we can also kind of go the new direction here with all of these vees fair tools and use the API to
set up a native backup that we can send these backups using Sep using FCP or SFP are using HDP or GDP.
So we can use secure encrypted methods and you can also encrypt the backup as well if you want.
And then finally what about our clients.
Well many of you will be sad to find out that there is no more C-Sharp client support than the old thick
client is no longer supported.
That's a little bit of bad news for you.
We still have the VSE faire web client which is the flash based the sphere web client and you can access
using a web browser but there is some big improvements here.
And number one it's faster.
And number two you don't need that client integration plug in anymore.
So in VSE for sex you had to install a client integration plug in if you wanted to do things like deploy
virtual appliances IVF or over a virtual appliances You need of the client integration plug in to upload
a file to a data store or to import or export items from a content library.
So basically if you were going to run the Vee's for web quite you probably were going to need that client
integration plug in that's no longer required.
There is still a plugin available called the Enhanced plugin and the enhanced plug in is specifically
for Windows pass through authentication.
So if you're logging into the vees for a web client and you want it to automatically grab your current
Windows credentials.
You still need to plug in for that.
And that's called the Enhanced plug in.
We also have the T.M. L5 V-Star climb.
They simply call this the VSE for our client.
Now the age Tim L5 version of the he's very quiet and that's definitely the future direction.
You know that and the API the future direction that we're headed here at some point the flash based
web client is going to be deprecated.
We're not there yet because the HVM L5 client still doesn't have all the features that the Flash version
does.
So we're not quite to the point where we can completely abandon that flash HVM quiet.
But the future direction is definitely this HMO L5 client.
We've also got the V Center appliance management interface.
So if you connect to the V Center server appliance over port 54 80 This will give you some of the basic
administrative tools for the VSE that are server appliance things like you know network settings and
updates and stuff like that.
We also have the VM where host client this is used to connect to individual ESX hosts and it's an eight
team L5 tool.
So this replaces that C-Sharp client that we use to use to connect to individual ESX hosts.
We're now transitioning to an HDMI five based tool called VM or host client.
And then finally we've got rest API eyes right.
And these rest API is our programmatic interfaces that we can use integrate with VSE fair.
This is definitely the long term future direction here is both the best API and HVM L5 based tools that
don't require flash or any kind of browser specific considerations.